Let's talk about Node.js.
Node is an open-source, cross-platform,
JavaScript server environment that allows you to
execute code outside of a browser in addition to within the browser.
Node allows you to easily create
real-time applications that run across distributed devices.
This makes it perfect for developing web applications,
which can be used on any number of screens.
One of the most powerful things Node allows is for
developers to write server side scripts.
Server-side code produces dynamic webpage content.
One example of dynamic web page content is Persistence.
Persistence describes a web app being able to maintain
created data across visits from the webpage.
So for example, when you post a Facebook message,
persistence allows for that Facebook message
to be shown every time that you or someone else come back to that page.
Node essentially allows you to write code that can be executed outside the browser,
which is otherwise very difficult to nearly impossible to do with JavaScript.
If that's not enough, here are some reasons why I love Node.
It allows me to easily create a server for
local web development without needing an FTP server or
my own domain and it lets me install packages that are dependencies for my project,
very easily and from the command line.
It also allows all the moving parts to come together to work in
a perfect precision to make Async web apps possible.